Okay, in this demo,
we're going to create some derived queries for our scheduled flights.
We're then going to verify that those queries function with a test.
Okay,
let's start by navigating to our test directory and creating a new test class.
We'll call it DerivedQueryTest.
Just like our other test,
we'll use a SpringRunner and make it a JPA test so only a partial
persistent specific Spring context is created during our tests.
We'll then wire in our FlightRepository so we can
make use of it during the test.
This time we'll create a setUp method and call deleteAll during it.
This ensures a database is empty at the start of each test.
So the state of one test cannot interfere with the state of
another by leaving some data behind accidentally.
We can call our test shouldFindFlightsFromLondon,
and it will be used to query all flights departing from London.
Let's start by creating our flight instance,
this time with a helper method while we pass in the origin as an argument,
London, and the rest of the fields are populated with some defaults.
We'll create two flights from London and one flight from New York and then
save all three of them to the database using the repository.
Okay, what we need to do now is query all the flights from London,
which we can't do yet as we've yet to create our
repository method to perform the query.
Let's assign a list of flights to a call to find by
origin the method we're going to create,
passing in London as an argument.
Then,
let's assert that we've received two flights back as only two are to London,
and then let's assert that they are equal to flight1 and flight2,
not flight3, which was to New York.
Okay, thanks to the beauty of derived queries,
we don't actually need to implement our methods.
We only need to declare it in our interface.
Nicely, our IDE can do this for us.
Behind the scenes,
this method will map to a SELECT * FROM flight WHERE origin = parameter,
but only because we're using the JPA version of Spring Data.
That's the beauty of the repository pattern as this method would
remain the same across multiple Spring Data modules.
Whereas a derived query would change based on what's needed
for the particular data store being used.
Great, let's switch back to our test and run it to confirm that it passes.
It does, meaning our derived query has worked successfully.
So now we've done a simple example,
we're going to create a few more tests trying out some
different types of derived queries.
We'll start by creating a test called shouldFindFlightsFromLondonToParis.
This time we'll give our method two arguments,
an origin and a destination, and then we'll generate it.
Once this is done, we can create a couple more flights.
So we have one from London to Paris, one from London to New York,
and one from Madrid to Paris.
We'll create a query method called findByOriginAndDestination,
passing in London and Paris, and then generate it using our IDE.
Behind the scenes,
this will become a SELECT * FROM flight WHERE origin =
parameter 1 AND destination = parameter 2.
Finally, we can assert that our query returns only one flight,
the one from London to Paris, in order to verify it works.
We can then save the flight so the start of the test,
run the test, wait for a second or so,
and be pleased to see that the test has gone green proving we've
successfully implemented yet another derived query.
And now we've done an AND query, we can also try out an OR query.
We'll create a test called shouldFindFlightsFromLondonOrMadrid,
creating a flight from London to New York,
Tokyo to New York, and Madrid to New York too.
We'll then save these to the database and then generate
our derived query named findByOriginIn, providing an array or arguments.
This one's interesting as behind the scenes we can in query where
Spring Data is intelligent enough to infer that the array is all of
the values to passed into the IN clause.
The generated query would be something like SELECT *
FROM flight WHERE origin IN values.
Finally, let's create our assertion.
We expect two elements here as the first flight is from London,
and the last flight is from Madrid.
On running our test, we can wait and then see that it's gone green,
proving again that our query works successfully.
Okay, let's create one final test where we query for flights,
but make our search case-insensitive.
This is something that's likely to come up a lot in a real system,
for example if we're dependent on user input.
We'll create a flight from London all in uppercase,
save the flight, and then, to begin with,
use our existing findyByOrigin query.
Then we can assert a flight is returned.
If we run our test, it will, of course,
fail as every flight is returned instead of one.
If we switch back to our test method and create a new
method called findByOriginIgnoreCase, it should work.
Behind the scenes,
a query will look something like SELECT * FROM flight
WHERE upper origin = upper parameter.
Okay, now that's done, let's run our test and see if it now passes.
It does.
And that covers it for this demo.
Whilst we've only hit the tip of the iceberg in terms of what Spring
Data is capable of in terms of derived queries,
this should hopefully lay a solid foundation for us to start to work with them in the future.